In this video we're going to be developing a email client so that we can use time we have to template
that email with him alive and deliver it with springs email capabilities to do that.
I'm going to create a new project and move from there so I'll create a new project right now and I'm
going to use Spring initialiser in the initialiser.
I'm going to name the project as e-mail and of course the artifact is going to be e-mailed to.
And let's say timely email project.
All right let's hit next.
And the dependencies what we need is web and we need the timely template engine.
That's all we need and I'm going to hit next and that's great.
Our project
our project is created.
Now let's take out the structure and start building our application in our application.
Well we're going to build as we're going to build a email service as the service and spring and then
call that service from our application class and make it deliver an email message and asked him out
email message actually.
So for doing that I'll start off with email service so to do that I'm going to create a new package
and name it as service in the service package.
I'm going to have a class named email service in the e-mail service class of course.
I'm going to annotate it as Cirus from Spring.
And what we're going to do in this class is we're going to take the context and template engine of time
leave and make it process are a similar template so that them what we're going to be injecting some
variables into it into our XT himself while and then we're going to simply delivered the message to
the recipients.
So what we're going to start off with is the template engine and context so that we can make use of
them.
So I'm starting off at private static and template engine from time leave.
And also I'm going to take the context of time we've.
Let's check out what we're going to use for a second.
And here we go.
We have the time leave context and lets me name it as context and then we're going to be of course using
a email sender.
So I'm going to use the Jawa email sender from spring
and as you can see our idea could not resolve the general mail sender sort of thing that we're going
to do is we're going to take the dependency from the main repository.
So let's move on to Firefox and go to our main repository
spring boot start starter and Mail.
And let's go to dependency and ended that then we have 1.5 that to as the latest one.
So let's copy that and switch back to our ID in our palm file I'm going to put the dependency right
below the web dependency.
And here we go.
Let's import for changes with Mabon
and we're done.
Let's switch back to our e-mail Cirus and check out the dependency and see if the ID can resolve it
right now.
And here we go.
We have it right now and I'm going to say e-mail sender and we're all set now.
Let's also have a lager so that we can track these tattoos on the console and I'm going to create a
cell phone a locker and then I'm going to use the logger factory and get lager in the lager.
I'm going to use e-mail service class.
And here we go let's order wire our e-mail center first and start from there.
To do that I'm going to create a solder injection and let's use the email sender and or wire it.
Erica read it to Move-On sort of.
First up we're going to do is we're going to initialize the template engine.
So for doing that I'm going to create a static method and private's Tadic would initialize
template engine Rigaud.
And within this method what I'm going to do is I'm going to create a classloader template resolver so
that we can get the gym elth while and reload as an AGM M-file actually.
So for doing that I'm going to say classloader template resolver resolver and new class little girl
template resolver.
And this result I'm going to set the template mode as a steam L5 just like this.
Here we go.
And the other thing that I'm going to do is I'm going to set the suffix the file extension as Dot h
tim L.
and we're done it.
And let's also set the character encoding.
So that's going to be as UTF 8.
All right so now let's initialize our template engine.
And in our template engine what we're going to do is we're going to set the resolver to the result that
we just create it.
So template engine set temperate resolver is resolved that we just create it and then let's also initialize
a template contacts so that we can make use of it.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to say template context is going to be no context and the locale
for that context is us.
All right.
So I'm going to be sending an English language text English language.
E-mail So the next step is going to be send email Methot And so that we can use that sound email method
to send e-mail that we want for doing that.
I'm going to go up a little and provide my metric right here so I'll say private Woit and send email
within that send email.
I'm going to be taking a couple of things.
The first thing I'm going to take is the mail to the who is the mail recipient and the next thing is
the subject and the final thing that I'm going to use as the male body.
All right.
And within this matter that what I'm going to do is I'm going to create a my message the multimedia
message so that I can set this type of the message to a steam owl and deliver it as I desire.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to create a my message and that message is going to be created
by our e-mail sender as the create my message.
And after that I'm going to use my message helper and with that helper I'm going to create my actual
my message.
So I'll say Neal my message helper and within the constructor I'm going to provide the message and I'll
say the multi-part mode as true.
So as you notice that we have a small problem right here and that is the on handle the exception.
So to handle that what I'm going to do is I'm going to throw the exception in the method body.
So for doing that I'll say and take the exception from here which is Joe oxcart mailed out messaging
ception and I'll say trows messaging exception.
Here we go.
And after our helper what I'm going to do is I'm going to set two of the male as male two from the method
parameters and after that I'm going to set the subject as the subject that I receive again from the
parameters.
And finally I'm going to set the text as the text that I receive from the method parameters and this
time as you can see here I'm going to set the Boullion of h d m l l to true so that my mail can be an
actual HTL file so that it can be rendered and displayed as an h m l at just like a web page so I'll
say male body and all pro-lie true.
All right.
And in the last part I'm going to use our email sender and deliver that message.
So I'll say email sound or send And my message that I create it.
And let's also log the statement that we send the message to the recipient email
sent to.
And what I'm going to do is I'm going to provide the recipient.
Here we go.
And the last thing that we're going to do is we're going to provide the utility method that we're going
to call from our application through the e-mail service that we just created.
So for doing that I'm going up again and I'm going to say public and avoid prepare and send e-mail just
to be descriptive.
And what I'm going to do in this method is I'm going to initialize my e-mail template.
And with that template I'm going to call my send e-mail message method.
So the first thing that I'm going to do is I'm going to take an HTML file from my resources.
So for doing that I'm going to say a similar template and I'll insert my template under templates an
email template.
All right.
We'll do that in a moment.
So please hang up in the mail to what I'm going to provide is my personal e-mail.
So I'll say my personal e-mail as does.
All right.
This is the recipient of my mail message.
So let's call our initialize template engine method and after that I'm going to be injecting two variables
into my mail template the first thing that I'm going to inject is what the context got set variable
and the variable is going to be sender and the actual value is going to be timely.
Email and the second thing that I'm going to insert is set variable and mailed to and on as mailed to
actually the mail that I'm using to deliver this message.
And after that I'm going to take the actual edge to my body of the message.
So for doing that I'm going to go to my template engine and make it process e-mail.
So for processing I'm going to be providing my template which is a DML template and also I'm going to
provide the context that I created.
Here we go.
The last thing that we're going to do is we're going to be calling the send e-mail message and an e-mail
message.
We're going to use the recipient as mail to and then we're going to be providing the message subject
and I'm going to provide timely e-mail demo and for the message body I'm going to say to a male body
just like that.
And we're of course again have to be trowing.
Another exception here and I'm going to add it to my method signature.
And here we go.
We're almost finished with our e-mail service.
The next thing that we're going to do is we're going to be creating a stem cell template to do that.
I'm going to go to my resources folder and under templates I'm going to create a new a steam file and
name it as e-mail template.
Here we go and this file what I'm first going to do is I'm going to get the name space of time wave
and it's going to be like HTP and slash slash.
W w w timely.
Dot org.
Here we go.
And after that I'm going to close the murder tax so that it can be rendered in any browser and in the
title.
What I'm going to provide is e-mail message from time leave.
And as you know this this is going to be an important because we're providing an e-mail message as the
ashed him.
We're not going to render a web page with this template.
So whatever you provide here is not going to be relevant.
So let's move on with our message and in our body I'm going to create a division.
And in that division I'm going to be providing an image from the web so that my image can be displayed
as I expect it.
So for the source of that image I'm going to use an image that I took from the web so I'll post the
URL here which is a simple spring boot image.
And after that I'm going to close my image tag and move on with my coat and after my division I'm going
to create a header with one so that it can be big enough that I can see.
And in this H-1 tech I'm going to say this email was sent to.
And what I'm going to do is I'm going to use the injected variable that I provided in my coat and I'm
going to say th text and that text is going to be dollar and curly braces and mail to just like that.
And after that I'm going to close my span and I'm going to say again in the next part with and this
time I'm going to be providing my other injected variable and that injected variable is going to be
th text.
And what I provided as the injected variable was sender.
So let's use that one in our template and let's say dollar and curly braces and sender.
Here we go.
We're almost ready and let's add some commas right here.
Some inflammation points so that we can understand this is coming from us.
So let's say our template and let's work out what we're missing.
We how everything created to deliver our message.
We have our template and we have our template resolvers.
But what we're missing is we're missing the male configuration to actually deliver this message through
spring's email sender.
So for Dad what I'm going to do is I'm going to go to my application up properties and configure my
email sender.
So let's open up our application properties and our application properties.
What I'm first going to say.
Spring dot mail dot host is going to be SMPTE P dot gmail dot com and make sure that this is the mail
sender that you're going to use the account that you're going to send the e-mail message.
Otherwise if you're using a Hotmail or Yahoo mail or say you can use the same T.P. of that mail provider.
Otherwise your message could not be delivered.
So let's move on and provide the port for at Spring dot mail that port is going to be 500 eighty 87
for Gmail and that's provide the user name for e-mail and the username I'm going to provide is some
other mail I'm using.
So I'm going to be blurring out this part.
And there's also pro-ID password for that account and the password is also be going to blurred out and
I'm putting it right now and you can use the password for your own account.
And the other things that I'm going to provide is spring dot mailed out properties and into properties
I'll say mail that S.M. T.P. dot off is true.
So that went this way I can be delivering my emails with a secure channel.
And the other thing is I'm going to be enabling the DNS for my mail delivery.
So to do that I'm going to say spring got mailed out properties and into properties I'll say mail dot
S-M T.P. dot start t ls and enable it's true.
Here we go.
We're finished with our configuration.
Now it's time to run our application and see if our message is actually delivered.
So I'm running my application right now.
And as you can see we don't have any email delivery in our logs.
That's because we missed the call our e-mail service from our application.
So let's fix that now.
And for fixing that I'm going to create a private variable for e-mail service and I'm going to use a
separate injection for that.
Let's also although wire it so that we can use it.
And in my class I'm going to say I will use a command line runner and with that command line runner
as you remember from our previous videos we were going to implement the run method.
So in the run method I'm simply going to call our e-mail service and prepare and send e-mail.
Simple as that.
Let's rerun our application and see the action right now.
Our application is starting up now.
And we're finished.
And as you can see in the log that e-mail sent to my personal e-mail address with them this low statement.
So I have my e-mail opened in a separate tab.
And let's take out if we delivered it as correctly.
So I'm going to switch to Chrome right now and open up my tap and in my e-mails you should see the timely
e-mail demo.
So let's really call on it.
And here we go.
We have a great looking him out e-mail with time we've it's looking beautiful right.
We have rendered our image and our text is rendered as the mail to as my personal e-mail address and
the sender as timely email.
And of course our exclamation points.
So this is a where a simple demonstration with time.
And spring emails.
You should of course make some advance templates and great looking e-mails to deliver to your clients
in your production grade applications.
So use this application template as a starting point for your next application and make sure to provide
a great email delivery tool for your next application for your system.